# Data Description
An overview of the research project and various types of data to be collected.

Context of the project for this DMP: The research questions we are trying to answer with the data are what the status of Denman Island Disease in Kumamoto oysters is cultivated in Humboldt Bay, California and whether there is evidence of Kumamoto oysters resolving Denman Island Disease. The data that will be used to answer the first question is PCR prevalence data since the original 2012 finding of Denman Island Disease in Kumamoto oysters cultivated in Humboldt Bay. This data is in an Excel spreadsheet. To elucidate some of the potential trends in PCR prevalence, sea surface temperature and salinity data will also be compiled into an Excel sheet. The second question will be answered by creating a scoring system and re-evaluating Kumamoto oysters histologically since 2012. The scores represent infection prevalence, severity, and evidence of infection resolution (parasites inside the cytoplasm of immune system cells). The scores will then be compiled into an Excel spreadsheet and trends will be elucidated against the PCR and abiotic data. Finally, to confirm the presence of Denman Island Disease inside host cells, we will use in situ hybridization to stain for the parasites specifically. Then the samples will have a simple ‘yes or no’ system of scoring, and those results will be compiled into an Excel sheet alongside the other data to look for trends in infection resolution. Approximately 2 GB of data for each data set will be created during the course of the project. Photos of histological and in situ hybridization will take up the bulk of the data. This project is a collaboration between Stephanie, OSU and a private company.

# Roles and responsibilities
Outlines the collaborators and their responsibilities towards the completion of the project.

The PI will be responsible for implementing the DMP, but the Graduate Student will be responsible for distributing it to our collaborators and ensuring policies are followed properly. The research conducted in this study is considered sensitive material, because some of it is preserved tissues of farmed molluscan shellfish and contains disease information that may be a risk for commercial farmers. Research data collected in our study will be in the form of histological blocks, H&E-stained tissues obtained from the histological blocks, photos, PCR data and prevalence calculations, and metadata accessed from Coastal Data Information Program (CDIP). CDIP is an open-access database and the information obtained from this site must be cited but can be manipulated or shared freely. The histological blocks, slides, and PCR data are all owned and managed by the owner of AquaTechnics, Inc. Research materials and relevant data stored according to their policies, which involve storing preserved material that is categorized by case number and digital data are stored on a secure server. Backup of the digital files will be stored on a dedicated flash drive once a month. The PCR prevalence calculations and CDIP downloaded metadata are managed by the Hase Lab and stored on cloud drive services only accessible by current lab personnel. These cloud services remain in regular use by authorized lab personnel and access to this service is terminated upon leaving the lab. Data analysis will be conducted by the Graduate Student to ascertain relevant information about Denman Island Disease in Humboldt Bay, California. Quality control of the data will be shared between all project collaborators.
In the event a researcher or collaborator leaves the project, the data collected for this project stays with the appropriate party as outlined above and may not be transferred to another institution or research entity unless agreed upon by AquaTechnics, Inc. owner and the Hase Lab PI. Under such conditions, there must be clear parameters outlined on how the data may be used, shared, or manipulated.
# Data standards and metadata
# Storage and security
# Access and data sharing
# Archiving and preservation
