# GRAD521_DMPPorter_2021

Context of the project for this DMP: The research questions we are trying to answer with the data are what the status of Denman Island Disease in Kumamoto oysters is cultivated in Humboldt Bay, California and whether there is evidence of Kumamoto oysters resolving Denman Island Disease. The data that will be used to answer the first question is PCR prevalence data since the original 2012 finding of Denman Island Disease in Kumamoto oysters cultivated in Humboldt Bay. This data is in an Excel spreadsheet. To elucidate some of the potential trends in PCR prevalence, sea surface temperature and salinity data will also be compiled into an Excel sheet. The second question will be answered by creating a scoring system and re-evaluating Kumamoto oysters histologically since 2012. The scores represent infection prevalence, severity, and evidence of infection resolution (parasites inside the cytoplasm of immune system cells). The scores will then be compiled into an Excel spreadsheet and trends will be elucidated against the PCR and abiotic data. Finally, to confirm the presence of Denman Island Disease inside host cells, we will use in situ hybridization to stain for the parasites specifically. Then the samples will have a simple ‘yes or no’ system of scoring, and those results will be compiled into an Excel sheet alongside the other data to look for trends in infection resolution. Approximately 2 GB of data for each data set will be created during the course of the project. Photos of histological and in situ hybridization will take up the bulk of the data. 
This project is a collaboration between Stephanie, OSU and a private company. 
